When it comes to running applications in the public Cloud,
companies are very concerned about security.
This is justifiable and a very valid concern shared by many.
So the questions will always arise,
will my data to be secure in the Cloud?
What about the major data breaches that I've heard in the news in the last few years.
How do I know the underlying physical hardware is secure?
These questions can be answered by
understanding the shared security responsibility model.
In the shared responsibility model, the Cloud provider,
for example, AWS, is responsible for security of the Cloud.
The Cloud customer, on the other hand,
is responsible for security in the Cloud. What does this mean?
So let's take a look at a representation of this model
from the AWS Security and Compliance page.
This page has a great diagram
describing this model and I'm going to open it up in another tab.
So AWS is responsible for protecting
the physical and virtual infrastructure that
runs all of the services offered in the AWS Cloud.
This infrastructure is composed of hardware, software,
networking, and the facilities that run AWS Cloud services.
An example of this would be AWS's commitment to ensure that
one customer can never access another customer's database or network resources.
The customer, on the other hand,
is responsible for ensuring that
Cloud services they use are configured and accessed securely.
An example of this could be when a customer provisions a Server Instance.
They will be responsible for operating system hardening
on the server and ensuring that disk volumes are encrypted.
The customer is also responsible for determining
identity and access permissions for the specific resource.
As a consumer of Cloud infrastructure and platform services,
you have the power to apply security best practices to
ensure that the Cloud is a safe and secure place to run your applications.